README.md, before:

# [LEARNISL](https://alansmythdeaf.github.io/learnisl)

Learning Irish Sign Language

The website is a quiz online learning ten different alphabet.

![screenshot](documentation/mockup.png)


## UX

When I decied to an online quiz, had many different options but decided to go with learn Irish Sign Langaguge(ISL), this is a basic quiz just to learn ISL.

### Colour Scheme

The main color in the back that I decided to use is

- `#005677` used for background colour of all the pages.
- `#FAEBD7` used for inside quiz game page.
- `#FFFFFF` used for primary text.
- `#000000` used for for buttons and for how to play page.

### Typography

I use the font Verdana as it's it score highly for web accessibility, I kept that one font throughout the website


## User Stories

### New Site Users

- As a new site user, I would like to easily understand where to go and how to play the quiz.

### Returning Site Users

- As a returning site user, I would like to do the quiz easily over and over again and hopefully get 10 out of 10.

## Wireframes

Balsamiq was used to create a layout of the website in the planning idea for the website. I had create a wireframe for each page in mobile, tablet and desktop.

### Mobile Wireframes

| Index | Game | How to play |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| ![screenshot](documentation/wireframe/index-mobile.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/wireframe/game-mobile.png)  | ![screenshot](documentation/wireframe/how-mobile.png) |

### Tablet Wireframes

| Index | Game | How to play |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| ![screenshot](documentation/wireframe/index-tablet.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/wireframe/game-tablet.png)  | ![screenshot](documentation/wireframe/game-tablet.png) |

### Desktop Wireframes

| Index | Game | How to play |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| ![screenshot](documentation/wireframe/index-laptop.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/wireframe/game-laptop.png)  | ![screenshot](documentation/wireframe/how-laptop.png) |

## Features

The quiz website has three pages, Index/Home page, Game page, How to play page. The page i

The website has an online quiz, the questions are images and have four answer.
### Existing Features

| **Image for ISL** | **Title for feature #2**| **Title for feature #2** |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| ![screenshot](assets/images/isla.png) | ![screenshot](assets/images/isla.png)  | ![screenshot](assets/images/isla.png)
| - This feature is an image that is use for the questions, without using the images as question the quiz wouldnt use at all | - Details about this particular feature, including the value to the site, and benefit for the user. Be as detailed as possible!| - Details about this particular feature, including the value to the site, and benefit for the user. Be as detailed as possible! |

### Future Features

- More Questions
    - I would include 26 alphabet and increase the number of questions
- Options
    - I would include different options to learn ISL - basic words &  numbers & alphabet & Sentence
- Video
    - Would add a video as a question, Person signing sentence and try to figure out what the person said

## Tools & Technologies Used

- [HTML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML) used for the main site content.
- [CSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSS) used for the main site design and layout.
- [JavaScript](https://www.javascript.com) used for user interaction on the site.
- [Python](https://www.python.org) used as the back-end programming language.
- [Git](https://git-scm.com) used for version control. (`git add`, `git commit`, `git push`)
- [GitHub](https://github.com) used for secure online code storage.
- [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com) used for hosting the deployed front-end site.
- [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io) used as a cloud-based IDE for development.
- [Coolors](https://coolors.co/) used for displaying colours in the website
- [Canva](https://www.canva.com/) used for designing the images in the roll of honour page
- [google](https://www.google.com/) used for searching information

## Testing

For all testing, please refer to the [testing.md](testing.md) file.

## Deployment

The site was deployed to GitHub Pages. The steps to deploy are as follows:

- In the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/AlanSmythDeaf/learnisl), navigate to the Settings tab 
- From the source section drop-down menu, select the **Main** Branch, then click "Save".
- The page will be automatically refreshed with a detailed ribbon display to indicate the successful deployment.

The live link can be found [here](https://alansmythdeaf.github.io/learnisl)

### Local Deployment

This project can be cloned or forked in order to make a local copy on your own system.

#### Cloning

You can clone the repository by following these steps:

1. Go to the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/AlanSmythDeaf/learnisl) 
2. Locate the Code button above the list of files and click it 
3. Select if you prefer to clone using HTTPS, SSH, or GitHub CLI and click the copy button to copy the URL to your clipboard
4. Open Git Bash or Terminal
5. Change the current working directory to the one where you want the cloned directory
6. In your IDE Terminal, type the following command to clone my repository:
	- `git clone https://github.com/AlanSmythDeaf/learnisl.git`
7. Press Enter to create your local clone.

Alternatively, if using Gitpod, you can click below to create your own workspace using this repository.

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/AlanSmythDeaf/learnisl)

Please note that in order to directly open the project in Gitpod, you need to have the browser extension installed.
A tutorial on how to do that can be found [here](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/configure/user-settings/browser-extension).

#### Forking

By forking the GitHub Repository, we make a copy of the original repository on our GitHub account to view and/or make changes without affecting the original owner's repository.
You can fork this repository by using the following steps:

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/AlanSmythDeaf/learnisl)
2. At the top of the Repository (not top of page) just above the "Settings" Button on the menu, locate the "Fork" Button.
3. Once clicked, you should now have a copy of the original repository in your own GitHub account!

### Local VS Deployment

Use this space to discuss any differences between the local version you've developed, and the live deployment site on GitHub Pages.



## Credits

### Content

| Source | Location | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Markdown Builder](https://tim.2bn.dev/markdown-builder) | README and TESTING | tool to help generate the Markdown files |
| [Chris Beams](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit) | version control | "How to Write a Git Commit Message" |
| [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_js_topnav_responsive.asp) | entire site | responsive HTML/CSS/JS navbar |
| [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_css_modals.asp) | contact page | interactive pop-up (modal) |
| [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_variables.asp) | entire site | how to use CSS :root variables |
| [Flexbox Froggy](https://flexboxfroggy.com/) | entire site | modern responsive layouts |
| [Grid Garden](https://cssgridgarden.com) | entire site | modern responsive layouts |
| [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/a/2450976) | quiz page | Fisher-Yates/Knuth shuffle in JS |
| [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YL1F4dCUlLc) | leaderboard | using `localStorage()` in JS for high scores |
| [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u51Zjlnui4Y) | PP3 terminal | tutorial for adding color to the Python terminal |
| [strftime](https://strftime.org) | CRUD functionality | helpful tool to format date/time from string |
| [WhiteNoise](http://whitenoise.evans.io) | entire site | hosting static files on Heroku temporarily |

### Media

| Source | Location | Type | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com) | entire site | image | favicon on all pages |
| [Lorem Picsum](https://picsum.photos) | home page | image | hero image background |
| [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com) | product page | image | sample of fake products |
| [Pixabay](https://pixabay.com) | gallery page | image | group of photos for gallery |
| [Wallhere](https://wallhere.com) | footer | image | background wallpaper image in the footer |
| [This Person Does Not Exist](https://thispersondoesnotexist.com) | testimonials | image | headshots of fake testimonial images |
| [Audio Micro](https://www.audiomicro.com/free-sound-effects) | game page | audio | free audio files to generate the game sounds |
| [Videvo](https://www.videvo.net/) | home page | video | background video on the hero section |
| [TinyPNG](https://tinypng.com) | entire site | image | tool for image compression |

### Acknowledgements

- I would like to thank my Code Institute mentor, [Tim Nelson](https://github.com/TravelTimN) for his support and guidance throughout the development of this project.
- I would like to thank the [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net) tutor team weekly meeting for their support.
- I would like to thank the Deaf people in our group [Code Institute Slack community](https://code-institute-room.slack.com) for the moral support; knowing that all are in the same boat even though we all have difference background.
- I would like to thank my work space, for supporting me in my hours to be flexible

Commit message:

Add images to localdeploy folder, update readme

README.md, after:

# [LEARNISL](https://alansmythdeaf.github.io/learnisl)

Learning Irish Sign Language

The website is a quiz online learning ten different alphabet.

![screenshot](documentation/mockup.png)


## UX

When I decied to an online quiz, had many different options but decided to go with learn Irish Sign Langaguge(ISL), this is a basic quiz just to learn ISL.

### Colour Scheme

The main color in the back that I decided to use is

- `#005677` used for background colour of all the pages.
- `#FAEBD7` used for inside quiz game page.
- `#FFFFFF` used for primary text.
- `#000000` used for for buttons and for how to play page.

### Typography

I use the font Verdana as it's it score highly for web accessibility, I kept that one font throughout the website


## User Stories

### New Site Users

- As a new site user, I would like to easily understand where to go and how to play the quiz.

### Returning Site Users

- As a returning site user, I would like to do the quiz easily over and over again and hopefully get 10 out of 10.

## Wireframes

Balsamiq was used to create a layout of the website in the planning idea for the website. I had create a wireframe for each page in mobile, tablet and desktop.

### Mobile Wireframes

| Index | Game | How to play |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| ![screenshot](documentation/wireframe/index-mobile.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/wireframe/game-mobile.png)  | ![screenshot](documentation/wireframe/how-mobile.png) |

### Tablet Wireframes

| Index | Game | How to play |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| ![screenshot](documentation/wireframe/index-tablet.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/wireframe/game-tablet.png)  | ![screenshot](documentation/wireframe/game-tablet.png) |

### Desktop Wireframes

| Index | Game | How to play |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| ![screenshot](documentation/wireframe/index-laptop.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/wireframe/game-laptop.png)  | ![screenshot](documentation/wireframe/how-laptop.png) |

## Features

The quiz website has three pages, Index/Home page, Game page, How to play page. The page i

The website has an online quiz, the questions are images and have four answer.
### Existing Features

| **Image for ISL** | **Title for feature #2**| **Title for feature #2** |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| ![screenshot](assets/images/isla.png) | ![screenshot](assets/images/isla.png)  | ![screenshot](assets/images/isla.png)
| - This feature is an image that is use for the questions, without using the images as question the quiz wouldnt use at all | - Details about this particular feature, including the value to the site, and benefit for the user. Be as detailed as possible!| - Details about this particular feature, including the value to the site, and benefit for the user. Be as detailed as possible! |

### Future Features

- More Questions
    - I would include 26 alphabet and increase the number of questions
- Options
    - I would include different options to learn ISL - basic words &  numbers & alphabet & Sentence
- Video
    - Would add a video as a question, Person signing sentence and try to figure out what the person said

## Tools & Technologies Used

- [HTML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML) used for the main site content.
- [CSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSS) used for the main site design and layout.
- [JavaScript](https://www.javascript.com) used for user interaction on the site.
- [Python](https://www.python.org) used as the back-end programming language.
- [Git](https://git-scm.com) used for version control. (`git add`, `git commit`, `git push`)
- [GitHub](https://github.com) used for secure online code storage.
- [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com) used for hosting the deployed front-end site.
- [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io) used as a cloud-based IDE for development.
- [Coolors](https://coolors.co/) used for displaying colours in the website
- [Canva](https://www.canva.com/) used for designing the images in the roll of honour page
- [google](https://www.google.com/) used for searching information

## Testing

For all testing, please refer to the [testing.md](testing.md) file.

## Deployment

The site was deployed to GitHub Pages. The steps to deploy are as follows:

- In the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/AlanSmythDeaf/learnisl), navigate to the Settings tab 
- From the source section drop-down menu, select the **Main** Branch, then click "Save".
- The page will be automatically refreshed with a detailed ribbon display to indicate the successful deployment.

The live link can be found [here](https://alansmythdeaf.github.io/learnisl)

### Local Deployment

This project can be cloned or forked in order to make a local copy on your own system.

#### Cloning

You can clone the repository by following these steps:

1. Go to the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/AlanSmythDeaf/learnisl) 
2. Locate the Code button above the list of files and click it 
3. Select if you prefer to clone using HTTPS, SSH, or GitHub CLI and click the copy button to copy the URL to your clipboard
4. Open Git Bash or Terminal
5. Change the current working directory to the one where you want the cloned directory
6. In your IDE Terminal, type the following command to clone my repository:
	- `git clone https://github.com/AlanSmythDeaf/learnisl.git`
7. Press Enter to create your local clone.

Alternatively, if using Gitpod, you can click below to create your own workspace using this repository.

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/AlanSmythDeaf/learnisl)

Please note that in order to directly open the project in Gitpod, you need to have the browser extension installed.
A tutorial on how to do that can be found [here](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/configure/user-settings/browser-extension).

#### Forking

By forking the GitHub Repository, we make a copy of the original repository on our GitHub account to view and/or make changes without affecting the original owner's repository.
You can fork this repository by using the following steps:

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/AlanSmythDeaf/learnisl)
2. At the top of the Repository (not top of page) just above the "Settings" Button on the menu, locate the "Fork" Button.
3. Once clicked, you should now have a copy of the original repository in your own GitHub account!

### Local VS Deployment

There is no difference from local and deployment as you can see the examples below, the different in the game is the images as it's the shuffle questions

| Index | Game |
| --- | --- |
| ![screenshot](documentation/localdeploy/local-deploy-index.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/localdeploy/local-deploy-game.png) |.



## Credits

### Content

| Source | Location | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Markdown Builder](https://tim.2bn.dev/markdown-builder) | README and TESTING | tool to help generate the Markdown files |
| [Chris Beams](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit) | version control | "How to Write a Git Commit Message" |
| [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_js_topnav_responsive.asp) | entire site | responsive HTML/CSS/JS navbar |
| [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_css_modals.asp) | contact page | interactive pop-up (modal) |
| [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_variables.asp) | entire site | how to use CSS :root variables |
| [Flexbox Froggy](https://flexboxfroggy.com/) | entire site | modern responsive layouts |
| [Grid Garden](https://cssgridgarden.com) | entire site | modern responsive layouts |
| [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/a/2450976) | quiz page | Fisher-Yates/Knuth shuffle in JS |
| [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YL1F4dCUlLc) | leaderboard | using `localStorage()` in JS for high scores |
| [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u51Zjlnui4Y) | PP3 terminal | tutorial for adding color to the Python terminal |
| [strftime](https://strftime.org) | CRUD functionality | helpful tool to format date/time from string |
| [WhiteNoise](http://whitenoise.evans.io) | entire site | hosting static files on Heroku temporarily |

### Media

| Source | Location | Type | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com) | entire site | image | favicon on all pages |
| [Lorem Picsum](https://picsum.photos) | home page | image | hero image background |
| [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com) | product page | image | sample of fake products |
| [Pixabay](https://pixabay.com) | gallery page | image | group of photos for gallery |
| [Wallhere](https://wallhere.com) | footer | image | background wallpaper image in the footer |
| [This Person Does Not Exist](https://thispersondoesnotexist.com) | testimonials | image | headshots of fake testimonial images |
| [Audio Micro](https://www.audiomicro.com/free-sound-effects) | game page | audio | free audio files to generate the game sounds |
| [Videvo](https://www.videvo.net/) | home page | video | background video on the hero section |
| [TinyPNG](https://tinypng.com) | entire site | image | tool for image compression |

### Acknowledgements

- I would like to thank my Code Institute mentor, [Tim Nelson](https://github.com/TravelTimN) for his support and guidance throughout the development of this project.
- I would like to thank the [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net) tutor team weekly meeting for their support.
- I would like to thank the Deaf people in our group [Code Institute Slack community](https://code-institute-room.slack.com) for the moral support; knowing that all are in the same boat even though we all have difference background.
- I would like to thank my work space, for supporting me in my hours to be flexible
